# [1] Disk Archaeology

Category: `foren`

Description:

> Unknown to the world, the sinister organization PALINDROME has been crafting a catastrophic malware that threatens to plunge civilization into chaos. Your mission, if you choose to accept it, is to infiltrate their secret digital lair, a disk image exfiltrated by our spies. This disk holds the key to unraveling their diabolical scheme and preventing the unleashing of a suspected destructive virus.
> 
> You will be provided with the following file:
> - md5(challenge.tar.xz) = 80ff51568943a39de4975648e688d6a3
> 
> Notes:
> - challenge.tar.xz decompresses into challenge.img
> - FLAG FORMAT is TISC{\<some text you have to find\>}

**Disclaimer:** By no means an optimised solution process, as I am admittedly relatively weak at forensics. This writeup describes the rough process that I actually took to solve the challenge.

---

We are given a `challenge.tar.xz` file which we are told that decompresses into a disk image. To start off, we extract the image from the archive using any suitable archiver (simplest being `tar -xJvf`).

I started off exploring the image by mounting onto my system. The image is relatively "clean", with many of the common linux root folders being empty. After a quick run-through of most of the files we can easily deduce that the image is a busybox image with alpine linux installed, with most of the files being "stock" system files with no tampering, such as by looking through `/lib/apk/db/installed` according to [the alpine package keeper spec](https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Apk_spec), as well as looking at the modification time for the files.

Unfortunately, after quite some time of digging and searching, I still could not find any suspicious file or information. As such, I attempted a more comprehensive forensic analysis using Autopsy. A part of it was to simply run through the image searching for the `TISC` string anywhere in the image, using the search bar in the top right corner. Immediately I am greeted with a suspicious `.elf` file containing the string:



On hindsight, I have realised that I could have simply done this at the start using `strings challenge.img | grep TISC` which would have a avoided a lot of trouble, but I think I simply forgot about it.

Anyways, we now have a binary that supposedly contains the flag somewhere. We cannot yet simply run the binary from here, as it will throw an error message:

```bash
-bash: ./1177-f0000008.elf: cannot execute: required file not found
```

We can quickly verify this using `ldd`:

```bash
$ ldd 1177-f0000008.elf
      linux-vdso.so.1 (0x00007ffc1e955000)
      libc.musl-x86_64.so.1 => not found
```

While we can simply attempt to resolve the dependency issue, I instead simply cracked the binary open to see if we can just quickly derive the flag ourselves. The `%s` also gives us a clue that a part of the flag is algorithmically derived by the binary before using `printf` to display the full flag.

Fortunately, opening it in IDA Freeware, we are greeted with a relatively pleasant `main` function:

```c
int __fastcall main(int argc, const char **argv, const char **envp)
{
  char *v3; // r12

  v3 = randstr;
  srand(0x1EFB171u);
  do
    *v3++ = rand() % 26 + 97;
  while ( v3 != &randstr[32] );
  printf("TISC{w4s_th3r3_s0m3th1ng_l3ft_%s}", randstr);
  return 0;
}
```

According to the decompilation, the remaining "hidden" characters are derived from `rand()` calls, where the seed is out in the open. I simply ran the code (along with some modifications) using a generic online C compiler:

```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main(int argc, const char **argv, const char **envp)
{
  char *v3;
  char randstr[32];
  v3 = randstr;
  srand(0x1EFB171u);
  do
    *v3++ = rand() % 26 + 97;
  while ( v3 != &randstr[32] );
  *v3 = 0;
  printf("TISC{w4s_th3r3_s0m3th1ng_l3ft_%s}", randstr);
  return 0;
}
```

Initially, the `randstr` turned out to be `qgwpdfioljzkwvjgcldiqnhwhuzroftg` which produced the wrong flag; on hindsight I realised that it may be due to musl libc implementation differences, but during the solve I simply used an older version of GCC (5.3.0 to be exact) and it worked (`randstr` was `ubrekeslydsqdpotohujsgpzqiojwzfq` which produced the correct flag). All in all, the final flag is therefore

```
TISC{w4s_th3r3_s0m3th1ng_l3ft_ubrekeslydsqdpotohujsgpzqiojwzfq}
```
